This is a piece of code made entirely using ChatGPT and Grok
just to try out if communication Lidar -> Pico -> PC is even possible.

At first I thought that ESP can't be used since I was planning on using
Pico in USB host mode which ESP doesn't support. After figuring out that
Micropython doesn't support the setting-up of a Pico in USB host mode I
removed CP2102 and connected the lidar to Pico via UART. Tx pin of Lidar
outputs 3.3V in HIGH mode, thus it could have been used together with ESP
provided separate input sources for the lidar and ESP (D500 needs a 5V source).
That probably wouldn't have been that big of an issue considering that most 
dc-dc breadboard-compatible regulators provide 5V to the first pair of rails
and 3.3V to the second, however I've already settled on Pico and taking into
account that I have a Pico-focused subject in the next semester it would make
Pico a better choice for this project :P.

Having a Micropython code won't probably work for this project because during
testing I've noticed that Micropython code isn't able to keep the port open
for more than 1s at 230400bps. It also can't leave the port open even with
"easier" programs for other programs to use the data on it for further
manipulation, making Micropython unusable for the application where we will
connect to Pico wirelessly and use the incoming data for processing and
visualisation using PC's computing capabilities. The code for sending data
therefore has to be written in C (unfortunately).

P.S. I might be wrong regarding the last paragraph and it may be actually
possible to compile .uf2 files from Micropython and flashing Pico with them
and I might have just not figured it out yet. However for now
I'll leave it as it is and try to make it send data wirelessly and plotting 
it out just to prove that wireless communication is possible. Then I'll try to
control the stepper motor and integrating it with the data transmission. It 
would be much easier to do it in Micropython, thus giving me the motivation 
to explore this idea further.

!!! Lots of missed packets due to loose connections with Pico board !!! 
For final look, consider making solder connections of wires to the board
